Cloud-aerosol modelling team @ University of Warsaw
===================================================

Our team is a part of Atmospheric Physics Division at the
  [Faculty of Physics][www-fuw], [University of Warsaw][www-uw].
Our key ongoing endeavour is a [Polish National Science Centre][www-ncn]
  funded project entitled **["Aerosol processing by clouds - development 
  of a multifaceted object-oriented numerical simulation framework"][news-201301-harmonia]**. 
The project is carried out together with collaborators from 
  [NCAR-MMM][www-ncar-mmm] and [ECMWF][www-ecmwf].

We aim at developing tools for studying **aerosol-cloud
  interactions** using **novel cloud/aerosol microphysics** models 
  and **state-of-the-art numerical schemes**.

We carry out the software development in compliance with **free 
  and open source** software engineering practices employing 
  **modern coding techniques**, aiming at researchers' 
  **productivity** and **result reproducibility**.

## NEWS

* current: **[OPEN POST-DOC POSITION][www-postdoc]**
* 2014-07: Ania's poster at the [AMS Cloud Physics conf.][news-201407-ams-www] in Boston
* 2014-07: [arXiv e-print on libmpdata++][axv-libmpdata]
* 2014-04: [Dorota's talk][news-201404-sea-talk] at the [UCAR Software Engineering conf.][news-201404-sea-talk] in Boulder
* 2014-03: [peer-reviewed paper in Scientific Programming][doi-mpdata-oop]
* 2013-10: [arXiv e-print on libcloudph++][axv-libcloudph]
* 2013-01: [Polish National Science Centre][www-ncn] 300k$ ''HARMONIA'' [project granted!][news-201301-harmonia]

## TEAM

* **[prof. Hanna Pawlowska][www-hania]** (group leader)
* [Sylwester Arabas][www-slayoo] (postdoc)
* [Anna Jaruga][www-ania] (PhD student)
* [Maciej Waruszewski][www-maciek] (PhD student)
* collaborators:
  * [prof. Piotr Smolarkiewicz @ ECMWF][www-piotr]
  * [prof. Wojciech Grabowski @ NCAR][www-wojtek]
  * [Dorota Jarecka @ NCAR][www-dorota]
* alumni:
  * Joanna Slawinska (@NYU Abu Dhabi)
  * [Piotr Rasinski][www-piotrek] (@sea - sailing)

## CURRENT PROJECTS

* [libmpdata++][www-libmpdata]
* [libcloudph++][www-libcloudph]
* software built upon libmpdata++ and libcloudph++:
  * icicle (2D kinematic cloud model)
  * icicles (3D LES-type cloud model)

## PAPER DRAFTS
  * [Jaruga, Arabas, Jarecka, Pawlowska, Smolarkiewicz, Waruszewski, 2014][axv-libmpdata], arXiv:1407.1309   
    libmpdata++ 0.1: a library of parallel MPDATA solvers for systems of generalised transport equations
  * [Arabas, Jaruga, Pawlowska & Grabowski, 2013][axv-libcloudph], arXiv:1310.1905   
    libcloudph++ 0.1: single-moment bulk, double-moment bulk, and~particle-based warm-rain microphysics library in C++

## PAPERS

  * [Arabas, Jarecka, Jaruga & Fijalkowski, 2014][doi-mpdata-oop], Sci. Prog., 22   
    Formula translation in Blitz++, NumPy and modern Fortran: A case study of the language choice tradeoffs
  * [Jarecka, Pawlowska, Grabowski, Wyszogrodzki, 2013][doi-jarecka-2013-acp], Atmos. Chem. Phys., 13   
    Modeling microphysical effects of entrainment in clouds observed during EUCAARI-IMPACT field campaign
  * [Arabas & Shima, 2013][doi-arabas-2013], J. Atmos. Sci., 70   
    Large-Eddy Simulations of Trade Wind Cumuli Using Particle-Based Microphysics with Monte Carlo Coalescence
  * [Jarecka, Grabowski, Morrison & Pawlowska, 2013][doi-jarecka-2013-jas], J. Atmos. Sci., 70    
    Homogeneity of the Subgrid-Scale Turbulent Mixing in Large-Eddy Simulation of Shallow Convection
  * [Slawinska, Grabowski, Pawlowska & Morrison, 2012][doi-slawinska-2012], J. Atmos. Sci, 69   
    Droplet Activation and Mixing in Large-Eddy Simulation of a Shallow Cumulus Field
  * [Arabas & Pawlowska, 2011][doi-arabas-2011], Geosci. Model. Dev., 4   
    Adaptive method of lines for multi-component aerosol condensational growth and CCN activation
  * [Rasinski, Pawlowska & Grabowski, 2011][doi-rasinski-2011], Atmos. Res., 102   
    Observations and kinematic modeling of drizzling marine stratocumulus
  * [Grabowski, Slawinska, Pawlowska, & Wyszogrodzki][doi-grabowski-2011], Acta Geophys., 59   
    Macroscopic Impacts of Cloud and Precipitation Processes in Shallow Convection
  * [Arabas, Pawlowska & Grabowski, 2009][doi-arabas-2009], Geophys. Res. Lett, 36   
    Effective radius and droplet spectral width from in-situ aircraft observations in trade-wind cumuli during RICO
  * [Jarecka, Grabowski & Pawlowska, 2009][doi-jarecka-2009], J. Atmos. Sci., 66   
    Modeling of Subgrid-Scale Mixing in Large-Eddy Simulation of Shallow Convection
  * [Slawinska, Grabowski, Pawlowska & Wyszogrodzki, 2008][doi-slawinska-2008], J. Climate, 21   
    Optical Properties of Shallow Convective Clouds Diagnosed from a Bulk-Microphysics Large-Eddy Simulation
  * [Pawlowska, Grabowski & Brenguier, 2006][doi-pawlowska-2006], Geophys. Res. Lett, 33   
    Observations of the width of cloud droplet spectra in stratocumulus
