Workshop on Eulerian vs. Lagrangian methods for cloud microphysics
==================================================================

The [cloud-aerosol modelling team][www-group] at the [Institute of Geophysics][www-igf],
[Faculty of Physics][www-fuw], [University of Warsaw][www-uw], Poland invites
to a workshop aimed at bring together researchers working on **modelling
cloud microphysics**.

The workshop will take place **in Warsaw on April 20-22, 2015** (the week following
the EGU General Assembly in Vienna).

## TOPICS AND FORMAT

The workshop topics cover formulation, implementation 
and validation of numerical models of aerosol, cloud and precipitation
microphysics.

The axis of the workshop is the juxtaposition of the Eulerian 
(bulk or bin) and the 
Lagrangian (particle-based) methods for modelling clouds.

The workshop is planned to feature three types of sessions: 
full-length introductory lectures, short presentations
as well as discussion panels on topics topics announced prior to the workshop.

## INVITED LECTURERS (ALPH. ORDER)

* Miroslaw Andrejczuk (U. Oxford, UK)
* Jean-Louis Brenguier (Meteo-France)
* Wojciech Grabowski (NCAR, US)
* Dorota Jarecka (NCAR, US)
* Shin-ichiro Shima (U. Hyogo, Japan)
* Raymond Shaw (Michigan Tech, US)
* Piotr Smolarkiewicz (ECMWF, UK)
* Simon Unterstrasser (DLR, Germany)

## CALL FOR PARTICIPATION

We request participants wishing to attend the workshop 
to fill in the [registration form][www_regform] **by the end of January 2015**.
Those willing to present their work are asked to submit a 
tentative title of a presentation, abstracts will be collted
by March 2015.

For practical inquiries, please contact 
Sylwester Arabas (sarabas@igf.fuw.edu.pl).

There is no registration fee.

## VENUE, TRANSPORT & ACCOMMODATION

The workshop will take place at the "Ochota Campus" of the 
University of Warsaw in the [CeNT][www_cent] building. 

Warsaw is served by two airports: [Chopin][www_chopin] in the centre (code: WAW) 
and [Modlin][www_modlin] on the outskirts of the city (code: WMI). The latter
is served by low-cost airlines. Both airports are reachable by public rail transport.

Warsaw has direct train connections to capitals of six of neighbouring countries, there
are also direct trains to Amsterdam, Budapest, Paris, and Vienna.

There are several hotels within 10-min bus ride from the workshop venue 
(e.g. [Campanile][www_campanile], [Golden Tulip][www_tulip], [Radisson][www_radisson],
[Ibis][www_ibis], [Ibis Budget][www_ibis_budget], [Sound Garden][www_sound_garden]).

## FUNDING

The workshop is organised within the framework of a joint 
U.Warsaw-NCAR-ECMWF project funded by the Poland's National
Science Centre (decision no. 2012/06/M/ST10/00434).
